Collaborate on the development of AI guidance (#505)
rust-lang/rust-project-goals: src/2026/official-rust-ai-guidance.md

# Official Rust guidance for AI agents

| Metadata         |                                                                                  |
| :--------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Point of contact | @nikomatsakis                                                                    |
| Status           | Proposed                                                                         |
| Tracking issue   |                                                                                  |
| Zulip channel    | N/A (an existing stream can be re-used or new streams can be created on request) |

## Summary

> The lang team will publish and maintain official guidance for AI coding assistants, teaching current idioms, correcting common mistakes, and updating agents on new features as they stabilize. This guidance will be made available in multiple formats for broad consumability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lang team will delegate an interested team of experts to publish and maintain guidance for AI coding assistants, teaching current idioms, correcting common mistakes, and updating agents on new features as they stabilize. This guidance will be made available in multiple formats for broad consumability.
```

But this influence is reactive. Rust can tell an AI "that's wrong" after it suggests something; it can't teach agents what to suggest in the first place. There's no channel to say "async closures are stable now" or "use `cargo add` instead of guessing version numbers" or "here's how to use tokio idiomatically."

### Training data lags reality

AI agents learn from training data, which means they learn from the past. Common issues we see:

* **Outdated idioms**: Agents default to Rust 2021 patterns even when 2024 features would be cleaner
* **Over-reliance on `Arc<Mutex<T>>`**: Agents reach for shared mutable state when factoring code to separate mutable from immutable data would be more idiomatic
* **Version guessing**: Agents hallucinate dependency versions instead of using `cargo add`
* **Missing new features**: Agents don't know about recently stabilized features like `let chains` or `async closures`

These aren't model failures; they're knowledge gaps. The models can't know what they haven't been trained on, and retraining lags behind Rust's release cadence.

## The goal

### Official guidance, published for broad consumability

> The lang team will publish and maintain official guidance to help AI agents use Rust most effectively. This guidance will be made available in multiple ways to help Rust users take advantage of it, regardless of what agent they are using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lang team will delegate an interested team of experts to publish and maintain guidance to help AI agents use Rust most effectively. This guidance will be made available in multiple ways to help Rust users take advantage of it, regardless of what agent they are using:
```

# Official Rust guidance for AI agents

| Metadata         |                                                                                  |
| :--------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Point of contact | @nikomatsakis                                                                    |
| Status           | Proposed                                                                         |
| Tracking issue   |                                                                                  |
| Zulip channel    | N/A (an existing stream can be re-used or new streams can be created on request) |

## Summary

> The lang team will delegate an interested team of experts to publish and maintain guidance for AI coding assistants, teaching current idioms, correcting common mistakes, and updating agents on new features as they stabilize. This guidance will be made available in multiple formats for broad consumability.

Reviewer 2: What makes this any different from existing material like changelogs, release updates, and other learning material?
